feat(data-orchestrator): add quickstart page MTA-7017 (#6493)
scaleway/docs-content: pages/data-orchestrator/quickstart.mdx

---
title: Data Orchestrator - Quickstart
description: This page shows you how to get started with Scaleway's Data Orchestrator.
tags: data orchestrator quickstart example guide step guide
dates:
  validation: 2026-05-11
  posted: 2025-04-20
---
import Requirements from '@macros/iam/requirements.mdx'
import UploadWorkflow from '@macros/data-orchestrator/upload-workflow.mdx'
import RunWorkflow from '@macros/data-orchestrator/run-workflow.mdx'
import BetaNote from '@macros/data-orchestrator/beta-note.mdx'

<BetaNote />

Data Orchestrator is designed to help the user automate, schedule, and manage data workflows across various systems and environments.

> This documentation explains how to quickly create a simple workflow, then run, monitor, schedule, and delete it.

Reviewer: Je trouve la phrase trop lourde avec tous ces verbes, je propose donc une autre version mais à toi de voir : Follow this guide to create your first workflow and take it through its full lifecycle.

> This documentation explains how to quickly create a simple workflow, then run, monitor, schedule, and delete it.

Author: ```suggestion
Follow this guide to create your first workflow and take it through its full lifecycle.
```

<Requirements />

- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
- [Owner](/iam/concepts/#owner) status or [IAM permissions](/iam/concepts/#permission) allowing you to perform actions in the intended Organization
- A [Container Registry namespace](/container-registry/how-to/create-namespace/)
- An image [pushed](/container-registry/how-to/push-images/) to your namespace (for task execution)
- Created at least three [Serverless Jobs](/serverless-jobs/how-to/create-job/)
- Basic familiarity with YAML syntax
- Basic familiarity with [Serverless workflow.io](https://serverlessworkflow.io/) language

## Create a workflow definition YAML file

Data Orchestrator requires the user to upload a YAML file to use as a workflow definition.

<Message type="tip">
  This is a basic example of a sequential workflow, more examples will be available soon.
</Message>

> 1. Create a YAML file, copy/paste the following content into the file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a YAML file, copy and paste the following content into the file.
```

    ```yaml
    document:
      dsl: 1.0.0
      namespace: <namespace_name>
      name: <workflow_name>
      version: 1.0.0
    do:
    - task1:
        call: "serverless_job"
        metadata:
          description: "The first job"
        with:
          id: "<Serverless_job1_ID>"
          region: "fr-par"
    - task2:
        call: "serverless_job"
        metadata:
          description: "The second job"
        with:
          id: "<Serverless_job2_ID>"
          region: "fr-par"
    - task3:
        call: "serverless_job"
        metadata:
          description: "The third job"
        with:
          id: "<Serverless_job3_ID>"
          region: "fr-par"
    ```

> 2. Replace the ID placeholders with the IDs of your Serverless Jobs. You can copy them from the [Serverless Jobs page](https://console.scaleway.com/serverless-jobs/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Replace the ID placeholders with the IDs of your Serverless Jobs. You can copy them from the [Serverless Jobs page](https://console.scaleway.com/serverless-jobs/) of the console.
```

    <Message type="note">
      The fields `namespace` and `name` are required. They can be used as metadata to help organize your YAML files.
    </Message>
3. Save the YAML file.

## Create a Data Orchestrator workflow

1. Click **Data Orchestrator** in the **Data & Analytics** section of the [console](https://console.scaleway.com/) side menu. The list of your workflows displays.
2. Click **+ Create workflow**. The Data Orchestrator workflow creation wizard displays.
3. Select the region in which your workflow will be created.
4. Enter a name or use the automatically generated one.

> 5. Enter a description (optional)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. Enter a description (optional).
```

> 6. Click **Create workflow only** to finish, or click **Create workflow and add tasks** if you want to upload a workflow next.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
6. Click **Create workflow only** to finish, or click **Create workflow and add tasks** to upload a workflow definition file next.
```

## Upload the workflow definition

<UploadWorkflow />

## Run a workflow

<RunWorkflow />

## Monitor a running workflow

1. Click the name of the workflow you want to monitor. The workflow **Overview** tab displays.
2. Make sure the last run status is `Running` or `Queued`.
3. Click **View run** next to the last run status. The run information displays.

## Schedule a workflow

1. Click the name of the workflow you want to manage. The workflow **Overview** tab displays.
2. Click the **Settings** tab.

> 3. Check the box marked **Enable run scheduling**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Check the **Enable run scheduling** box.
```
